README.md, before:

# scrapy-opensuse-mail

This is a scrapy project that sole purpose is to crawl OpenSUSE Mailing List page **based on year and month**, parse them, and output them in the form of JSON lines. 

An oversimplified steps of this spider are :

- Get the link based on the category and date (e.g. https://lists.opensuse.org/opensuse-announce/2018-12/all.html), where `opensuse-announce` is the category and `2018-12` is the date
- Get into each and every link in that page that contains `msgXXXXX.html` where X is a number
- Parse the needed fields into a scrapy item
- Return that item

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for production, development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

This project was created using :

- Python 3.7
- Scrapy 1.5.1
- BeautifulSoup 4.7.0

Incompatibility with older and newer versions of software are unknown.

All the prerequisites are python prerequisites and can be installed using pip

```
$ pip install --user BeautifulSoup==4.7.0 #for beautifulsoup
$ pip install --user scrapy==1.5.1 #for scrapy
```

### Installing

To get a development env running, first, clone this repository to your folder, and cd into it


```
$ git clone https://gitlab.s8i.io/hrdkgtm/scrapy-opensuse-mail.git
$ cd scrapy-opensuse-mail
```

Then, try to run the spider with :

```
$ scrapy crawl mail_spider -a category=opensuse-bugs -a date='2018-12' -s FEED_URI=bugs.json
```

This will call the `mail_spider` to crawl the opensuse-bugs category for **December 2018**, and then save the parsed output to a file (bugs.json) inside your current directory. 

Try to cat or head the parsed data and you should see something like this :
```
$ head -1 bugs.json
{"subject": "[Bug 1117086] Automatic cleanup of old kernels not working", "origin": "bugzilla_noreply@xxxxxxxxxx", "date": "Sat, 01 Dec 2018 00:47:41 +0000", "src_link": "https://lists.opensuse.org/opensuse-bugs/2018-12/msg00000.html", "reference_link": ["http://bugzilla.opensuse.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1117086", "http://bugzilla.opensuse.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1117086#c3"], "msg_body": "\n\n\nhttp://bugzilla.opensuse.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1117086\nhttp://bugzilla.opensuse.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1117086#c3\n\nbob wheater <bwheater@xxxxxxx> changed:\n\n           What    |Removed                     |Added\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------\n                 CC|                            |bnc-team-screening@xxxxxxxx\n                   |                            |ovo.novell.com\n   Target Milestone|---                         |Leap 15.0\n              Flags|                            |needinfo?(bnc-team-screenin\n                   |                            |g@xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx)\n\n--- Comment #3 from bob wheater <bwheater@xxxxxxx> ---\nWhat is the status of this bug report?\n\n-- \nYou are receiving this mail because:\nYou are on the CC list for the bug.\n\n\n\n\n"}

```

Here are all the fields that this spider will parse
- `subject` = the subject of the message
- `origin` = the sender of the message
- `date` = the date the message was sent
- `src_link` = the origin url that the message was parsed from
- `referece_link` = any links that is mentioned in the mail

## Deployment

For production use, ideally you would have a `scrapyd` server running somewhere, and then you can deploy this project to that server using `scrapyd-deploy` which can be run from inside the project.

`scrapy.cfg` is the file to configure if you are going to deploy this to a live environment. which looks like this and very straightforward

```
[settings]
default = opensuse_mail.settings

[deploy]
url = http://localhost:6800/
project = opensuse_mail
version = 1.0.0
```

Change the [deploy] section to match your scrapyd server.

If you want the crawler to actively checks for changes, theres a separate [project](https://gitlab.s8i.io/hrdkgtm/scrapyd-opensuse) that wraps everything to a bash script and systemd unit files. 



## Built With

* Python
* Scrapy web crawler
* BeautifulSoup html parser

## Versioning
   
Semantic Versioning

## Known issues
   
* All the known problems, bugs listed here. Add link to issues if any.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the LICENSE.md file for details

## Reference Documentation

[Scrapy 1.5 documentation](https://doc.scrapy.org/en/latest/index.html)

[BeautifulSoup4 Documentation](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/)

Commit message:

added JOBSDIR setting parameter for deployment

README.md, after:

# scrapy-opensuse-mail

This is a scrapy project that sole purpose is to crawl OpenSUSE Mailing List page **based on year and month**, parse them, and output them in the form of JSON lines. 

An oversimplified steps of this spider are :

- Get the link based on the category and date (e.g. https://lists.opensuse.org/opensuse-announce/2018-12/all.html), where `opensuse-announce` is the category and `2018-12` is the date
- Get into each and every link in that page that contains `msgXXXXX.html` where X is a number
- Parse the needed fields into a scrapy item
- Return that item

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for production, development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on how to deploy the project on a live system.

### Prerequisites

This project was created using :

- Python 3.7
- Scrapy 1.5.1
- BeautifulSoup 4.7.0

Incompatibility with older and newer versions of software are unknown.

All the prerequisites are python prerequisites and can be installed using pip

```
$ pip install --user BeautifulSoup==4.7.0 #for beautifulsoup
$ pip install --user scrapy==1.5.1 #for scrapy
```

### Installing

To get a development env running, first, clone this repository to your folder, and cd into it


```
$ git clone https://gitlab.s8i.io/hrdkgtm/scrapy-opensuse-mail.git
$ cd scrapy-opensuse-mail
```

Then, try to run the spider with :

```
$ scrapy crawl mail_spider -a category=opensuse-bugs -a date='2018-12' -s FEED_URI=bugs.json
```

This will call the `mail_spider` to crawl the opensuse-bugs category for **December 2018**, and then save the parsed output to a file (bugs.json) inside your current directory. 

Try to cat or head the parsed data and you should see something like this :
```
$ head -1 bugs.json
{"subject": "[Bug 1117086] Automatic cleanup of old kernels not working", "origin": "bugzilla_noreply@xxxxxxxxxx", "date": "Sat, 01 Dec 2018 00:47:41 +0000", "src_link": "https://lists.opensuse.org/opensuse-bugs/2018-12/msg00000.html", "reference_link": ["http://bugzilla.opensuse.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1117086", "http://bugzilla.opensuse.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1117086#c3"], "msg_body": "\n\n\nhttp://bugzilla.opensuse.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1117086\nhttp://bugzilla.opensuse.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1117086#c3\n\nbob wheater <bwheater@xxxxxxx> changed:\n\n           What    |Removed                     |Added\n----------------------------------------------------------------------------\n                 CC|                            |bnc-team-screening@xxxxxxxx\n                   |                            |ovo.novell.com\n   Target Milestone|---                         |Leap 15.0\n              Flags|                            |needinfo?(bnc-team-screenin\n                   |                            |g@xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx)\n\n--- Comment #3 from bob wheater <bwheater@xxxxxxx> ---\nWhat is the status of this bug report?\n\n-- \nYou are receiving this mail because:\nYou are on the CC list for the bug.\n\n\n\n\n"}

```

Here are all the fields that this spider will parse
- `subject` = the subject of the message
- `origin` = the sender of the message
- `date` = the date the message was sent
- `src_link` = the origin url that the message was parsed from
- `referece_link` = any links that is mentioned in the mail

## Deployment

For production use, ideally you would have a `scrapyd` server running somewhere, and then you can deploy this project to that server using `scrapyd-deploy` which can be run from inside the project.

`scrapy.cfg` is the file to configure if you are going to deploy this to a live environment. which looks like this and very straightforward

```
[settings]
default = opensuse_mail.settings

[deploy]
url = http://localhost:6800/
project = opensuse_mail
version = 1.0.0
```

Change the [deploy] section to match your scrapyd server.

You may also want to change the spider settings, as in it current form, the jobs directory will be stored inside the spider. To make it more accessible you can change the `JOBSDIR` parameter inside the spider [settings](opensuse_mail/settings.py) into your preferred jobs directory (e.g. `/opt/scrapyd/jobs/`)

```
...
JOBDIR = '/opt/scrapyd/jobs'
...
```

If you want the crawler to actively checks for changes, theres a separate [project](https://gitlab.s8i.io/hrdkgtm/scrapyd-opensuse-mail) that wraps everything to a bash script and systemd unit files. 

## Built With

* Python
* Scrapy web crawler
* BeautifulSoup html parser

## Versioning
   
Semantic Versioning

## Known issues
   
* All the known problems, bugs listed here. Add link to issues if any.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License 2.0 - see the LICENSE.md file for details

## Reference Documentation

[Scrapy 1.5 documentation](https://doc.scrapy.org/en/latest/index.html)

[BeautifulSoup4 Documentation](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/)
